I asked Chachi BT what the number one
most common personal fear in the world
is and its response public speaking also
known as
glossophobia so how do you overcome the
fear of public speaking in this video I
am going to give you several tips to
overcome this fear and ensure you
deliver a great next presentation the
first thing to remember is that nerves
are completely normal and they're not
necess necessarily a bad thing I
interviewed Jazelle yugard who is a
professional keynote speaker and she
told me that she gets incredibly nervous
before giving every single speech in
fact she spends an hour completely
Frozen in bed in her hotel room before
she comes down and delivers her
presentation so if you are experiencing
some level of nerves first off know that
that is normal that many people
experience nervousness and anxiety and
the key is to ride those nerves like a
wave and deliver a great presentation
the key to overcoming your fear of
public speaking starts in advance before
you deliver your actual speech if you
have the opportunity try to get to the
venue in advance and stand either at the
front of the room or on the stage
wherever it is that you're going to be
presenting you see sometimes the vantage
point of being in front of a big group
of people can be intimidating but if
we've already explored that area where
we're going to speak in advance and
we're familiar with the stage or the
front of the room and we see the empty
chairs we can visualize ourselves giving
the presentation and it will take away
some of that fear of that vantage point
that we have on the day of the speech
speaking of what you can do in advance
of delivering your speech is
practicing the more you practice the
more you are familiar with what it is
that you want to present about the
easier it's going to be on the day of
because if we're just winging a speech
or we've only practiced once or twice
the nerves may cause us to forget what
it is that we are going to be talking
about which will make us even more
nervous when we're standing in front of
people
when we don't have our clear train of
thought practice as much as possible
especially in the week leading up to the
speech that will help reduce those fears
so you've done your advanced practice
now what do you do on the actual day of
the speech well just before you're about
to deliver your presentation ensure that
you're standing up you can find a spot
at the side of the room and use a power
position which is something something
like arms at your sides or widening out
just doing a little stretch like this
one of these confident poses while on
your feet because it's difficult to go
from sitting down to all of a sudden
standing up and delivering a
presentation but when we're on our feet
we're telling our bodies that we're
ready for action that we're ready to go
and it's going to be a more natural
transition into beginning our speech
next make sure you've drank a lot of
water before presenting and that you
bring water on stage with you because
one physical response that we get from
public speaking from time to time is
that our mouths get dry and if our
mouths get dry while we're presenting in
front of people it may be noticeable and
it may throw us off because it feels
uncomfortable so have water on stage
with you where you can quickly take a
sip of your water right before before
you present or if you're showing video
content you can sneak in a sip or even
between sentences it's not going to look
strange it will look completely normal
but it will help keep your mouth
hydrated and avoid that dry mouth
feeling in many of my other videos I've
talked about the importance of not
reading your notes word for word off of
a sheet of paper but if you do need to
have notes of some sort I advise you to
not hold a single piece of paper
because what happens is our bodies
sometimes have a response where our
hands shake when we're giving a
presentation and if our hands are
shaking and we're holding a single piece
of paper that's going to be really
noticeable to the people in the audience
and to us a way around this is that you
can have something heavier such as a
full notepad where you hold your piece
of paper and there you're looking at it
it's too heavy to shake uncontrollably
or if you have a binder or a clipboard
it's harder to shake something like this
so it's going to be less noticeable for
the audience than that single piece of
paper which could be rattling around
another thing you can do just before you
step on stage is get control of your
breath I like doing box breathing and
the idea here is to inhale for 4
seconds hold for 4 seconds
exhale for 4 seconds hold for 4 seconds
and repeat and that will help calm our
nerves and get our breathing under
control before we begin the presentation
now you're about to give the
presentation and my number one tip for
getting past nerves and Stress and
Anxiety is to incorporate
humor humor is so incredibly important
because it does two powerful things
first it relaxes your audience you see
many audiences are wondering when a
speaker stands on stage or in front of
them whether it's going to be
interesting whether they're going to get
any value out of the
presentation and the sooner you can make
them laugh they're going to relax
because that is the sign of an
accomplished speaker someone who can
make his or her audience laugh and so
your audience will relax and they'll
know that you know what you are doing
but the second thing humor does is it
relaxes you the speaker because when you
hear the audience laughing that is a
universal sign that they are enjoying
themselves and so by hearing that
laughter you can be at ease knowing that
the audience is also enjoying the
presentation and that's going to help
you quickly gain confidence and settle
into your Rhythm if you've taken all of
these steps you're going to be in great
shape for overcoming a majority of the
fear of public speaking and you still
may feel some nerves but please remember
that is completely normal that
adrenaline is a natural part of the
experience of public speaking and
remember that you've been asked to give
a speech or a presentation for a reason
you can add value to this audience
there's a reason you're doing this trust
yourself trust the preparation you've
done do your best and please enjoy the
experience even if it takes a lot of
stress and anxiety out of you try to
enjoy the process you're going to do a
great job I hope these tips on
overcoming your fear of public speaking
have been helpful did I miss anything
let me know in the comments if you
haven't already subscribed to my YouTube
channel this is what I do I talk about
public speaking about impactful
communication I want to help make you a
more confident and effective commun
Communicator so if that's your goal hit
that subscribe button you'll never miss
a video I appreciate you watching this
one and I'll catch you on the next one